INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO100","Applied Cells, Genetics & Physiology ","This course is designed to provide a topical and interactive introduction to biology for non-majors. Students will learn how trillions of tiny cells of our bodies work together in organ systems to use food for energy, to keep us alive, moving and healthy, and how information passes to subsequent generations. This course is identical to BIO 107.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO101","Applied Biological Diversity, Ecology & Evolution ","An interactive course for the non-major that discusses the variety of living things and how we ended up with them and what makes them unique. This course also explores how living things affect each other and the world as well as the impacts that humans have on the living world. This course is identical to BIO 109.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO107","Cells, Genetics & Physiology ","This course is designed to provide a topical and interactive introduction to biology for non-majors. Students will learn how trillions of tiny cells of our bodies work together in organ systems to use food for energy, to keep us alive, moving and healthy, and how information passes to subsequent generations. This course is identical to BIO 100.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO108","Cells, Genetics and Physiology Laboratory ","This course is designed to be a companion course to the BIO 107 lecture. Labs are focused on providing students with a hands-on approach to science. Topics include how cells generate energy from food, how certain characteristics are genetically encoded and the physiology of human systems and diseases.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO109","Biological Diversity, Ecology & Evolution ","An interactive course for the non-major that discusses the variety of living things and how we ended up with them and what makes them unique. This course also explores how living things affect each other and the world as well as the impacts that humans have on the living world. This course is identical to BIO 101.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO110","Biological Diversity, Ecology and Evolution Laboratory ","A companion course to BIO 109 that provides a hands on exploration of the diversity of life including microbes, plants and animals as well as the processes that give rise to this diversity. The labs also provide practical exploration of the impacts of human beings on the planet.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO112","Biotechnology for Society ","In Biotechnology for Society, students will become familiar with the fundamentals of genomic and cellular-based biotechnologies to begin to understand the roles that biotechnology is currently playing and is poised to play in society. Students will appreciate the complexity of those roles by investigating both the intended consequences and the potential and inadvertent ethical, legal and social implications of these technologies. This course is intended for non-science majors.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO116","How Your Body Works-Or Not ","How Your body Works-or Not is geared for non-major students hoping to explore the workings of their bodies. Students will explore why we evolved to have various organ systems, and how some systems accomplish their roles. We will explore how these systems can malfunction or fail, resulting in disease.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO118","Basics of Cancer ","This course provides an opportunity for students with little or no biology background to learn about cancer. Students can expect to learn what cancer is from a biological perspective, and how it is caused and treated. Students will also gain a basic understanding of how tumors form, and metastasize.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO122","Cells and Genetics ","An introduction to the concepts of cell and function, cell and reproduction, cell communication, genetic inheritance, and population genetics. The relevance of genetics to society and ethical issues are included.","4.5 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO124","Evolution & Organismal Diversity ","Students will learn about the theory of evolution and the mechanisms of how organisms change. Using this knowledge, students will explore the diversity of organisms on Earth that is a hallmark of biology and the result of evolution by examining the representative members from the five major kingdoms of life. This course has a lecture, lab and recitation component.","4.5 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO126","Physiology and Ecology ","The first half of the course will survey physiological systems, including the respiratory, circulatory, homeostatic, excretory, and digestive systems in animals. The second half of the course will emphasize the relationships between organisms and the environment, including how humans impact ecosystems and the biosphere. This course has a lecture, lab and recitation component.","4.5 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO141","Essential Biology ","Introduces essential biological concepts to engineering students. Content covers five core topics: cells, genetics, evolution, ecology and physiology with application to societal concerns about biotechnology, health, conservation biodiversity and bioethics. Evolution will be woven throughout the course as a unifying theme in understanding all aspects of biology.","4.5 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO161","General Biology I ","Covers structure and function of the cell and the organ-system plan of organization of the human body.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO162","General Biology II ","Continues BIO 161. Covers the mechanics of heredity, including growth, differentiation, and development. Winter.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO163","General Biology III ","Continues BIO 162. Covers the plant and animal kingdoms, radiobiology, evolution, and ecology. Spring.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO164","General Biology Laboratory I ","In this course students will perform computer simulations of laboratory exercises related to photosynthesis, enzyme activity and kinetics, the cardiovascular, muscle and bone systems, regulation of human organ systems as well as plant growth and development.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO165","General Biology Laboratory II ","In this course students will perform computer simulations of laboratory exercises related to cell division, mendelian genetics, DNA replication, translation and mutations. They will work with simulated microscopes to observe viral and microbial specimens. Additionally, students will learn and simulate biotechnology techniques such as DNA fingerprinting.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO166","General Biology Laboratory III ","Involves experiments demonstrating the key principles in ecology and evolution including: population parameters, food webs, species interactions, succession, eutriphication, natural selection, sexual selection and evolutionary trees.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO200","Connections in Biology ","Connections in Biology is an open enrollment course which will give students the opportunity to make exactly that: connections. Building upon a new theme in biology each week, students will connect that material to their current Philadelphia community as well as to their future professional and personal pursuits. The course is designed on the Community Based Learning platform (CBL) and is scheduled to meet twice a week: one meeting will be a formal lecture on campus and one meeting will be at a partnered middle school with the instructor and Drexel students leading an 9 week after school science club. Students will gain volunteer hours, get an introduction to civic engagement, benefit from community based learning practices and connect their Drexel course material to the bigger picture in their lives.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO201","Human Physiology I ","Intensive survey of the basic physiological mechanisms of cellular and human electrophysiology and the physiology of the muscular, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, and gastrointestinal systems.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO202","Human Physiology Laboratory ","Laboratory course in human physiology. Designed to accompany BIO 201 and 203 Human Physiology I and II. Uses simulation, experimenters and data acquisition techniques to provide practical experience in the design and execution of physiological experiments and analysis of physiological data. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO203","Human Physiology II ","Intensive survey of the control mechanisms of cellular and human physiology including introductions to control theory, neurophysiology, endocrine control, and control mechanisms in locomotion, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, acid/base, gastrointestinal, and reproductive physiology.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO207","Applications in Biology I ","The aim of this course is to allow students to apply knowledge from biology courses to understand important articles from the frontiers of biology research, in order to develop critical thinking and problem solving skills. Students will learn to read primary research, to think critically about research and interpret data.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO208","Applications in Biology II ","In this course, students will further develop and practice skills introduced in the Applications in Biology I course by reading and interpreting research from primary articles. This will include historical experiments and controversial research. This will help students develop critical thinking, scientific reasoning and problem solving skills.","1.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO209","Cell, Molecular & Developmental Biology I ","In this course, students will cover essential topics in cell, molecular, and developmental biology. Topics, such as protein structure function relationships, enzymes, structural & functional properties of nucleic acids, transcription & translation, regulation of gene expression, eukaryotic cell structure, cell membranes and membrane transport. Commonly used techniques in biochemistry, molecular & cellular biology will be discussed.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO211","Cell, Molecular & Developmental Biology II ","In this course, students will learn about molecular, cellular and developmental biology at a higher level than in introductory coursework. This second course in the sequence will focus on cell biological processes such as: vesicular trafficking, signaling, cytoskeletal dynamics, cell cycle, cell death, tissue organization, stem cells and development. At the end of this course, students should have a strong foundation in cell and developmental biology.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO212","Biotechnology ","Covers the use of recombinant DNA techniques in biotechnology. Explores the many uses of biotechnology in the biological, agricultural and medical field. Also covers the social, ethical and environmental issues involved in this discipline.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO213","Drosophila Neural Research ","In this course, you will be introduced to the basics of performing directed research in Drosophila genetics and neurobiology. This research will be informed by its relevance to disease. You will be working on one of a variety of diseases that is related to neurodevelopmental and/or neurodegenerative diseases. Diseases include (but are not limited to) CHARGE syndrome, Alzheimers disease, Pitt-Hopkins disease, and schizophrenia. In this course, you will be testing for potential genetic modifiers and,or drugs that modify disease phenotypes associated with an established models of these diseases.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO214","Principles of Cell Biology ","The course familiarizes students with the basic fundamentals and principles of cell biology. Topics include protein and enzymes as metabolic facilitators, the source and function of cellular energy, cell structure and function, cellular protein transport, cell communication, cell cycle control, apoptosis, and cell differentiation.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO215","[WI] Techniques in Cell Biology ","A course designed to introduce students to the lab techniques used by cell biologists. The lab is project-based focusing on various assays to assess cell viability/survival and fluorescence microscopy is used for cell structure and their organelles, apoptosis, cytoskeletal structure, muscle contraction and cell motility. Other topics include protein separation and quantification, and gel electrophoresis. Analytical thinking and data analysis are emphasized to help foster the development of a project built on multiple experiments.This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO218","Principles of Molecular Biology ","The course is designed to familiarize students with the details and concepts revolving around molecular biologys central dogma. Specifically the chemical nature of DNA and RNA, the molecular structure of DNA and chromosomes, the definition of a gene, how DNA is replicated, and how genes are expresses and regulated.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO219","[WI] Techniques in Molecular Biology ","Designed to familiarize student with laboratory techniques utilized in molecular biology, specifically DNA isolation, characterization, and manipulation. Students work in teams to collect and analyze data and explain results in laboratory reports. Weekly recitations preview and review theory and techniques used in the lab. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO220","Essential Microbiology ","Covers morphological, physiological, and biochemical characteristics of bacteria, fungi, algae, and protozoa, and viruses. Introduces the principles of microbial genetics, disease, and control of microorganisms. This course is identical to BIO 221.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO221","Microbiology ","Covers morphological, physiological, and biochemical characteristics of bacteria, fungi, algae, protozoa, and viruses. Introduces the principles of microbial genetics, disease, and control of microorganisms.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO222","Microbiology Laboratory ","An introduction to microbiological techniques, and culture of prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. Includes sterile techniques, and use of specialized microscopic techniques. Classical and molecular techniques of microbial identification are also covered.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO223","Parasitology ","Parasitology explores the most predominant lifestyle on earth, parasitism. Students will learn how parasites invade and exploit their hosts, the resultant damage to the hosts, and the mechanisms by which hosts defend and protect themselves from these invaders.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO224","Form, Function & Evolution of Vertebrates ","This course is an introduction to principles of organismal biology from the perspective of form, function and evolution of fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals and birds. Many biological principles are well known in this group of animals. Data from areas as diverse as paleontology, ecology and molecular biology will be presented.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO225","Vertebrate Biology and Evolution Laboratory ","A hands-on laboratory course that complements BIO 224: Form, Function & Evolution of Vertebrates. Students use the comparative approach to learn about the anatomy, physiology and evolution of vertebrates. Laboratory work will be on campus and in the field trips to observe vertebrates in nature.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO226","Microbiology for Health Professionals ","An introduction to microbiology for students in the health professions. Covers the diversity of microorganisms, their growth and how to control them. An introduction to the principles of disease and pathogenicity, host interaction and immunological response. Laboratories focus on the basic techniques to culture and student microorganisms.","5.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO227","Exploring Parasites ","Exploring Parasites Laboratory will safely introduce students to hands-on experiences with a vast diversity of human parasites to understand their evolutionary adaptations. Students will learn to culture Giardia lamblia, an enteric parasite, and design a term-long research project to study an aspect of Giardia biology of student interest.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO228","Evolutionary Biology & Human Health ","This course illustrates the importance and utility of evolutionary perspectives on various topics related to human health. In addition to the how questions, this course also introduces the why questions. Various evolutionary hypotheses are examined. Arguments for and counter-arguments against each hypothesis are presented to foster understanding of each topic. Selected topics include infectious diseases, pathogen virulence, allergies/asthma, mental health/addiction, genetic disorders, diseases of civilization, sex, pregnancy, aging, and public health concerns.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO229","Dictyostelium Research ","We will be developing and progressing molecular and cellular projects to study cellular function in Dictyostelium discoideum as a model to investigate human cellular dysfunction. This exploratory and experimental course is designed to provide opportunities for students to experience authentic laboratory investigation in the context of a course which runs like a research group. Projects progress from term to term so students are welcome to continue in subsequent terms to further progress their projects or switch to other ongoing projects.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO231","Cell Physiology ","Molecular biology of the cell, including regulation of function, genetic mechanisms, chemistry and structure of cellular components, and cell-to-cell interactions.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO232","Discovering Antibiotics ","The focus of this course is the process of research and inquiry that leads to the isolation, characterization and identification of potential antibiotic producing microbial strains and species from soil. Students will work in small groups to collaboratively design and carry out their own experiments that will isolate these microorganisms. During this course, you will learn about the structure, metabolism, nutrition, and diversity of soil microorganisms.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO244","Genetics I ","Surveys Mendelian, microbial, molecular, and population genetics. Discusses model systems and analytical methods used by geneticists to understand gene functions at cellular, organismal, and population levels.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO256","Vertebrate Morphology and Physiology ","Provides comparative study of the major vertebrate groups, relationships between physiology and organismal structure, evolutionary history, comparative anatomy, and development.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO257","Vertebrate Morphology & Physiology Lab ","A hands-on laboratory course that complements BIO 256: Vertebrate Morphology and Physiology. Students will use comparative dissections of representative vertebrates to understand the anatomy and evolution of major vertebrate groups.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO264","Ethnobotany ","This course explores the relation between ancient/cultural botanical knowledge and its current application in modern pharmacology and alternative forms of medicine. It provides an interdisciplinary approach to the study of plants for food, medicine, stimulation, religious rituals and death.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO270","Development Biology ","Covers molecular, cellular and physiological mechanisms underlying development of animals from gametes to adults. Covers the major stages and selected aspects of vertebrate development in importance animal model systems. Particular focus in on the importance of differential gene expression and its regulation in development.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO271","Developmental Biology Laboratory ","Includes observations into development processes in a diverse group of organisms including developmental principles in simple multicellular protests, gametogenesis in diverse animal, fertilization in sea urchins, embryonic development of vertebrates, regeneration of planarians, and the role of gene regulation in fruit fly development. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO284","Biology of Stress ","This course focuses on the biological responses to the physical and psychological stress, discussing in turn stress responses in various organ systems. Emphasis is given to the analysis and evaluation of conflicting biological evidence on stress effects.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO285","Forensic Biology ","This course will introduce students to the fascinating subject of forensic science, and specifically the role that biology can play in solving crimes. Topics being covered will include examining a crime scene, and the analysis of biological materials such as fingerprints, blood, plant material and human remains. During the course students will have to play the role of a forensic scientist, applying the knowledge that they will learn each week to see if they can determine who committed the crime. Case studies from real crimes will also be used to illustrate the points being made.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO286","Forensic Toxicology ","In this online course students will study forensic toxicology, the study of chemicals- drugs, alcohol and poisons (to name a few), in relation to legal cases. These cases may involve identification of a powder, or examination of an envelope for traces of poisons, or the analysis of a blood samples to identify and quantify the presence of a substance which may have results in intoxication or even death.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO306","Biochemistry Laboratory ","Covers biochemical techniques ranging from basic laboratory preparatory work such as making solutions to the measurement of enzyme kinetics and substrate specificity.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO310","Comparative Physiology ","Provides comparative study of the physiology of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. Examines physiological principles by studying cardiovascular adaptations, water balance, respiratory adaptations, and other homeostatic mechanisms in model systems, including fish, amphibians, mammals, birds, and invertebrates.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO311","Biochemistry ","Covers bioenergetics and metabolism; enzymes, substrates, products, coenzymes, transporters, pathways (catabolic and anabolic for carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids, and nucleotides). Intracellular regulation, intercellular regulation, and how all this serves to meet the need of the cell and organism.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO312","Genetically Modified Foods ","Covers the application of recombinant DNA techniques in the creation of genetically modified foods. Explores the many uses of these food. Also covers the social, ethical and environmental issues involved in the use of genetically modified foods.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO313","Comparative Physiology Laboratory ","Computational laboratory examining quantitative facets of vertebrate physiology through simulation experiments. Complements BIO 310 Comparative Physiology. Example systems examined include gas and solute exchangers, open vs closed circulations, and thermoregulatory controllers. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO314","Pharmacology ","In this course, students will apply their studies of chemistry and biology to understand how drugs: are designed, affect the body, and are affected by the body. Students can expect to learn the fundamentals of pharmacology, and to discuss current topics and novel approaches being used to design new therapeutics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO318","Biology of Cancer ","In this course, students will apply their studies of cell and molecular biology to understand cancer pathology. Starting with a fundamental knowledge of normal cellular processes, students will learn how normal processes go awry in tumor development and metastasis, and the current approaches being used to develop new cancer therapeutics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO320","Microbial Pathogenesis ","Covers mechanisms of pathogenesis in microbial disease: transmission, prevention, public health. Also covers molecular basis of microbial pathogenesis.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO322","Mycology ","Covers morphology, taxonomy, and physiology of yeasts and molds, with emphasis on species of economic importance; plant and animal pathogens; industrial fermentations; toxin production; decomposition of organic materials; and fungal morphogenesis.","4.5 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO331","Bioinformatics I ","This course uses a combination of lecture and hands-on exercises to develop computational, algorithmic, and database navigation skills used in the analysis of genes and genomes. Topics include genomic databases, genome assembly and annotation, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, and comparative genomics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO332","Bioinformatics II ","This course uses a combination of lecture and hands-on exercises to develop programming and software skills used in the study of functional genomics. Topics include genetics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO333","Bioinformatics Laboratory ","In this course, students develop and apply computational skills in bioinformatics to address a quarter-long research project. Topics generally focus on the ecology and evolution of microbes, which have become much easier to study thanks to the advent of molecular tools and software for the analysis of DNA sequences.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO346","Stem Cell Research ","This course will focus on recent and important topics relevant to stem cell research and development. Topics will include nuclear reprogramming and epigenetics, environmental influences on stem cell differentiation, stem cells and cancer, stem-cell-based therapies for heart and neurodegenerative disorders, stem cells and ageing, and politics of stem cell research.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO348","Neuroscience: From Cells to Circuits ","This courses provides an introduction to the biological basis of human and animal behavior. This course will emphasize fundamental aspects of neuroscience including how individual neurons respond to stimuli, how these neurons connect to form circuits during development, and how ensembles of neurons work together to mediate simple tasks.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO349","Behavioral Neuroscience ","This course provides an introduction to the biological basis of human and animal behavior. This course will emphasize fundamental aspects of neuroscience with a focus on the principles of how circuits function in the nervous system. Topics covered will include how neural circuits mediate sensory perception, drive behavioral output, and generate thoughts and emotions.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO368","Embryology ","This course surveys general features of developing systems, and focuses on the developmental history of adult structures and functions in humans. Human developmental defects are also discusses.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO370","Teratology ","This course will expand on the concepts of developmental biology by examining the agents that interfere with normal development. We will be exploring these agents through presentations and discussion of current peer reviewed literature. The focus will be on an understanding of mechanisms of action and how they are influenced by dose pharmacology and genetics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO372","Histology ","This course is designed to give students an understanding of the established fundamentals and principles of histology. Histology lies at the interface between cell biology and physiology: here we examine how cells work together as tissues and organs to create a functional pump (the heart), filters (the kidneys), and bellows (the lungs). While considerable focus will be on the structural details of select systems, there are recurring patterns that emerge in tissue construction. These patterns reflect regional variations in the functional role of the assembled tissue; studying these principles offers us a view of how small differences in cell number, type, and interaction can lead to the wide variety of tissue/organ properties seen in the human body.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO386","Gross Anatomy I ","This course is to give students an understanding of Human Anatomy in a clinical format. Anatomy will be studied in a regional manner with an emphasis placed on landmarks and relationships of structure within a region. Regions covered to include the back, upper limb, thorax, and abdomen.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO387","Gross Anatomy I Laboratory ","This course is to accompany the Gross Anatomy lecture course and complements the students study of human anatomy by allowing the student to hone their dissection skills through dissection of a preserved mammalian specimen.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO388","Gross Anatomy II ","This course is a continuation of the clinically focused study of Human Anatomy begun in BIO 386 (Gross Anatomy I). Anatomy will be studied in a regional fashion, with a focus on the pelvis, lower limb, head, and neck.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO389","Gross Anatomy II Lab ","This course is to accompany the Gross Anatomy lecture course and complements the students study of human anatomy by allowing the student to hone their dissection skills through dissection of a preserved mammalian specimen. This course is a direct continuation of BIO 387 (Gross Anatomy I Lab).","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO404","Structure and Function of Biomolecules ","Covers the weak interactions which govern structure and function of biomolecules, including amino acids, proteins (structural organization, isolation, and methods of analysis). Enzymes (structure, catalytic mechanisms, kinetics), lipids and biomembranes, and DNA and RNA folding.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO406","Computational Biochemistry Laboratory ","This course uses kinetic analysis of biochemical data to increase the computational and numerical sophistication used to build sound models of the underlying biological processes. Students start with Excel as the analytical tool. MATLAB is then used as the complexity of the problems demands it.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO410","Advanced Molecular Biology ","This course will provide students the opportunity to learn about molecular mechanisms of gene expression and control, genome analysis and manipulation, and the use of advanced tools and techniques in molecular biology. The principles of molecular biology and techniques will be discussed in the context of model organisms commonly used for molecular biology research. The course will have a strong focus on experimental approaches, problem solving and on understanding literature in the field. At the conclusion of the course, students should have the background to design experiments, and read and discuss papers from the primary literature regarding different aspects of molecular biology.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO412","Biology of Aging ","Discusses ageing at the organismal, organ, cellular, and molecular levels. Discussions include chronological verses biological aging, normal and abnormal human physiology of aging, current theories of aging, the effect of caloric restriction on aging, and the molecular mechanisms that underlie normal and abnormal aging.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO413","Genomics ","This course aims to elucidate current technologies, theory, and applications of genomic research. Though a large emphasis will be placed on the use of genomic tools to study human health, we will also study the genomes, transcriptomes, and proteomes of bacteria, fungi, plants, and other animals.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO414","Behavioral Genetics ","This course explores the role of genetics in determining variation in animal (including human) behavior, and the role of gene expression in regulating behavioral development. The course surveys techniques for quantifying and analyzing genetic variation, behavioral effects, and gene expression.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO415","Proteins ","Discusses protein structure, function, and isolation. Emphasizes biochemical, biophysical, and molecular biological techniques.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO416","Biochemistry of Major Diseases ","This course focuses on the biochemical bases of several selected human disorders including neoplasm, cardiovascular disorders, diabetes and obesity. Biochemical changes ant their regulation by signaling pathways under the disease conditions will be examined. The relevance of diagnosis and treatment will be discussed.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO420","Virology ","Discusses the major viral groups, including biochemistry and molecular genetics of viral replication, structure, gene expression, latency, and role in disease.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO421","Biomembranes ","The experimental and theoretical basis for the structure and function of biological membranes will be surveyed. Topics include membrane self assembly, bilayer phase behavior and dynamics, membrane protein structure, passive and active transport, membrane fusion and trafficking.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO424","Microbial Physiology ","Covers physiology and metabolism of microorganisms with emphasis on aspects unique to prokaryotes, including envelope structure, transport systems, modes of nutrition, biosynthesis, growth, and mechanisms of action of antibiotics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO426","Immunology ","Covers the fundamental concepts of innate and adaptive immunity, including the molecular and cellular mechanisms that generate responses to a broad spectrum of infectious threats, self-non-self recognition, immune regulation.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO427","Immunology Laboratory ","Students will gain a more thorough understanding of the complexities of the mammalian immune system and will receive hands on experience with common models used in immunology labs. This course complements the Immunology lecture course (BIO 426). Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO430","Cell Biology of Disease ","An introduction to the pathobiology of human disease as it relates to principles of cytoskeleton and membrane biology. The course reviews basic intracellular mechanisms and examines how they go awry in respiratory, heart and kidney diseases, diabetes, cancer, neurodegeneration and during viral and microbial infections.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO433","Advanced Cell Biology ","Course covers chemical composition and cellular function of organelles and other cellular structures, intra- and inter- cellular regulatory processes, intercellular communication, genetic mechanisms and analytical techniques.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO434","[WI] Advanced Cell Biology Laboratory ","Course covers fundamentals of growth, division and homeostasis of mammalian cells grown in culture. Students perform experiments on cells to monitor cellular morphology, including subcellular structures and specific regulatory proteins. Techniques include fluorescent microscopy, cell transfection and subcellular fractionation. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information. This is a writing intensive course.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO435","Immunobiology of Disease ","This course will expand on the concepts of molecular immunology focusing on emerging concepts in immunology research, immunopathologies, failure of host defense and current clinical concepts.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO436","Human Population Genetics ","This course surveys population genetics theory as applied to studies of micro-evolutionary changes. We will examine the forces of evolutionmutation, selection, inbreeding, gene flow, genetic driftand how they can (and cannot) change allele frequencies in populations over time. We will apply the theory that you have learned by also examining current primary literature on human evolutionary history, population genetics and patterns of adaptation.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO442","Modeling Methods in Biology I ","Offers practical experience in the modeling of simple biological systems, including the applications of linear, trigonometric, and exponential functions in biology and the use of differential and integral calculus, simple differential equations, and the Eulerian approach to simulation. Emphasizes practical computational use of such tools in biological problems. Offered in alternate years.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO443","Modeling Methods in Biology II ","Offers a practical introduction to the modeling of dynamic biological processes, including deterministic and stochastic processes. Emphasizes the development and construction of working models and the interpretation of results. Discusses both mechanistic and empirical/predictive models. Students develop their own model of a real-world biological process. Offered in alternate years.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO444","Human Genetics ","Covers the fundamentals and principles of genetics with an emphasis on their relevance to human genetics and disease. Topics include human genetic disorders, pedigree analysis and genetic testing, cytogenetics, epigenetics, genetics if cancer, gene therapy, stem cell research, human genomics and biotechnology.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO445","Microbial Genetics ","Covers genetic organization and regulation in bacteriophage and bacteria, techniques of genetic manipulation of microbial genomes, genetic interactions of microbes under natural conditions and the use of microbial genome modification in industry.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO447","Advanced Genetics and Molecular Biology ","Covers classical prokaryotic and eukaryotic genetics; DNA/RNA structure; DNA replication, transcription, translation and regulation of these processes. Also covers major molecular techniques used for characterizing prokaryotic and eukaryotic genes, tools for analysis of genomes, and applications of molecular genetics research.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO449","Recombinant DNA Laboratory ","Covers procedures of DNA isolation and purification, insertion of DNA sequences into plasmid cloning vectors, introduction of plasmids into appropriate host cells, and methods of recovering and analyzing cloned DNA.","5.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO451","Genetic Reg Development ","Covers molecular and genetic control of morphogenesis and cellular differentiation. Focuses on differential gene function and the interaction between the nucleus and the cytoplasm.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO453","Protein Dysfunction in Disease ","Proteins are essential for the function and health of the cell. Misfolded and damaged proteins are at the root of numerous human diseases, known collectively as conformational diseases. In this course we will examine cellular mechanisms involved in biosynthesis, folding and maintenance of proteins, and discuss how the failure of these mechanisms contributes to disease.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO461","Neurobiology of Autism Disorders ","Autism disorders arise from changes in neurodevelopment that deeply affect how individuals interact with the world around them. As study of autism has increased over the past several decades, it has become clear that autism actually comprises a large, heterogeneous set of similar disorders, most of which are genetic in origin. In this class, we will study how neuronal cell biology is disrupted in known forms of autism, and how distinct forms of autism can arise from alterations in common cellular pathways. Further, we will discuss how these discoveries may lead to eventual treatments or cures.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO462","Biology of Neuron Function ","Covers molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neuron function. Topics include: molecular and cellular biology of neurons and neural development; molecular biology and physiology of sensory and motor neurons; molecular biology of muscle function; molecular and cellular basis of learning and memory in model organisms.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO463","Molecular Mechanisms of Neurodegeneration ","This is an advanced course on the current, primary literature in the area of neurodegeneration. Students are expected to be conversant in areas of Genetics, Cell Biology, Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, and Neurobiology. This is a discussion course based on reading current manuscripts from the primary literature. Some or all pre-requisites may be taken as either a pre-requisite or co-requisite. Please see the department for more information.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO465","Neurobiology of Disease ","The objective of the course is to provide a basic understanding of molecular and cellular biology of disorders of the human nervous system. Advances developed form experimental models that have armed clinicians and basic scientists with new tools for diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury will be presented.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO466","Endocrinology ","Describes the classical hormones, their regulation and major clinical abnormalities. New directions in endocrinology, such as cellular regulation and cellular mediators of hormonal action are also considered. The major focus of the course will be on mammals, although some examples involving other vertebrates are included.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO468","Pathophysiology ","This course is designed to give students an appreciation of the many ways to think about the diseased organism, with an emphasis on the cellular- and systems-level malfunctions that contribute to the disease state. Having established an understanding of the normal physiology of the system in question, we will investigate the underlying cause, origin, and symptoms of the pathophysiology, as well as exploring the successes and limitations of available treatment options. Considerable emphasis will be placed on the importance of model systems that mimic aspects of the diseased state, as well as the role epidemiological data plays in helping to clarify the genetic and environmental contributors.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO471","Seminar in Biological Sciences ","Discusses and evaluates selected current topics in bioscience and biotechnology. Includes presentations by outside speakers.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO472","Seminar in Biological Sciences ","In the second term of senior seminar, we will continue to host professional seminars with speakers presenting current research in the various biological disciplines. Professional development sessions will be available that will be helpful to the students maturation.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO473","[WI] Seminar in Biological Sciences ","This is a writing intensive course.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO474","Thesis in Biology ","Through this course, research-active students will engage in activities intended to help them develop a written thesis, and learn how to present their research effectively in both written and oral formats. Students will be encouraged to improve their skills in reading and analyzing the literature and their own data. Students will communicate their ideas through the development of a formal thesis, an in-class oral presentation, and a poster presentation. Seminar attendance will be a part of this course. Students must complete BIO 471 and 473 before registering for this course.","2.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("BIO497","Research ","Provides guided research in biology, molecular biology, microbiology, cell or human physiology, genetics, biochemistry, or biotechnology.","0.5","AS");
