INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM101","Human Communication ","This course explores the elements of basic human communication - what does it mean to communicate? What makes communication good or bad? What is the nature of verbal and non-verbal messages? What does it mean to communicate in a group? How does culture affect communication?.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM111","Principles of Communication ","Explores the importance of communication in organizational settings. Includes assessment of appropriate modes of communication, including written, spoken, and electronic.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM150","Mass Media and Society ","Provides an overview of the history, economic structure, regulation, and impact of the mass media in the United States.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM160","Introduction to Journalism ","This course is designed to acquaint students with various forms of basic newswriting and interview techniques. Students will learn how to write leads and short articles under deadline pressure. This is a writing-intensive course. Although writing is the main emphasis of this class, students also will learn newsroom organization, ethics and press law.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM181","Public Relations Principles and Theory ","This course focuses on the principles of public relations. It introduces students to the theory and practice of PR taught in the context of real life material and situations. The course also covers main public relations techniques, tools, and types of publics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM200","Current Events in Media and Communication ","Media are not only the channels through which we learn about current eventsthey are also, often, event makers themselves. This course will explore the collaborative relationships between media and current events, while exploring the topics of contemporary interest from the last 2-3 months.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM210","Theory and Models of Communication ","Surveys historical and contemporary attempts to understand the process of human communication, using examples from the literature of interpersonal, group, organizational, and mass communication.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM211","Children and Media ","This course examines the effects of media on the well-being and development of children and adolescents from a number of perspectives, including: emotional, intellectual, and physical. Through research, discussion and writing, students consider the effects of not only the legacy media (television, radio, music and print), but also those of new media, including social media.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM220","Qualitative Research Methods ","This course provides a detailed investigation of the nature, application, analysis and write up of qualitative research in communication and the social sciences, including such topics as ethnography, in-depth interviews, focus groups, participant observation, and narrative analysis.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM221","Quantitative Research Methods in Communication ","This course introduces students to quantitative methods used in the study of communication. The course will help student develop techniques to understand research problems in communication settings. Students will consider applications, including survey research, content analysis, usability testing, and experimental design, and will discuss procedures for developing, operationalizing, and testing questions within communication environments.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM230","Techniques of Speaking ","A workshop course in improving public speaking skills. Provides experience in speeches of explanation, persuasion, and argument.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM240","New Technologies In Communication ","Provides an overview and survey of the changes taking place in the technologies of information production, distribution, storage, and display, including the interaction of these changes with legal, social, cultural, and communications systems.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM246","Media and Identity ","This course focuses on the central role that identity plays in popular culture, exploring how media reflect diverse identities and how, in turn, we use media to construct our own identities.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM261","Advanced Journalism ","This course is designed for students interested in advancing their knowledge of news reporting and writing. Students will learn how to cover meetings, speeches, public affairs, such as courts, and to write for digital media. In addition, students will learn how to write human-interest stories, called features.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM265","Audio Journalism ","This course will familiarize students with the creation of audio news and editorial content that is used not only in traditional radio broadcasting, but also in web-delivered programming such as podcasts and streamed audio. Students will learn the unique characteristics of audio journalism, practice writing for the ear and will record and edit digital audio.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM266","Copy Editing for the Media ","This course is designed to acquaint students with the necessary skills to prepare written materials for the media. It will cover traditional print media, magazines and online media, such as websites and blogs. The importance of accuracy, consistency, and credibility in handling written copy will be emphasized. Skills to write captivating headlines, captions and other accompaniments to visuals will be a large focus of this class.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM270","[WI] Business Communication ","Covers the writing of business letters, resumes, memos, proposals, and reports. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM282","[WI] Public Relations Writing ","In this writing-intensive course, students will develop the professional-level writing skills expected of public relations practitioners. The objectives include building an understanding of PR writing styles and genres as a persuasive influence and learning how to use basic information in different PR media kits, memos, letter, and other external and internal communications.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM284","Public Relations Research, Measurement and Evaluation ","Public Relations research is the first essential element in the process of Public Relations. The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the methods of quantitative and qualitative research most widely used to assess an organizations public relations efforts.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM286","Public Relations Strategies and Tactics ","This course helps students better understand the advanced concepts, strategies, and tactics practiced in public relations today. It combines real-life case studies with core theoretical ideas to help students relate theory to the actual practice of the profession. This intermediate-level course connects scholarship with time-honored real-life PR strategies and tactics.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM290","Sports and the Mass Media ","To explore the interrelationships between professional and college sports and the mass media. Students will look at how news media coverage has changes sports, the conventions found in sports journalism, promotion and marketing of sports teams and leagues, and how sponsorship of sporting events changes the nature of these events.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM305","Sports Journalism ","To gain a deeper appreciation for and understanding of the meaning- making power of sports journalism. We will explore the history of sports journalism, review and critique examples of historically significant sports writing and write game stories and columns based on actual coverage of local and on-campus sporting events.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM310","[WI] Technical Communication ","Develops skills in communicating technical information. Focuses on writing letters, resumes, proposals, reports, and instructions. Offers extensive writing practice along with exercises and presentations. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM311","Dynamics of Interpersonal Communication ","This course provides the student with a more thorough understanding of the communication dynamics between individuals. By reviewing scholarly writing on the subject and performing direct observations and analyses, students will acquire an appreciation of the complexities of interpersonal communication and enhanced communication skills.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM315","Investigative Journalism ","Mastery of investigative reporting tactics and strategies enables student to explore and write about issues of great importance to the community.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM316","Campaigns for Health & Environment ","This seminar-style course explores theories and practical aspects of environmental and health campaigns and community-based social marketing campaigns. This course has a strong applied component.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM317","[WI] Environmental Communication ","This reading and writing intensive course will explore communication about environmental issues. Topics can include advocacy campaigns, social marketing, environmental journalism, media coverage of environmental issues, green marketing, the environment in popular culture, risk communication, and public participation.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM318","Film, Celebrity and the Environmental Movement ","Using the framework of mass media and behavioral change theories, we will look at the environmental movement through the lends of eco celebrities and mainstream environmental films and will discuss how Hollywood shapes our perceptions of the environment and whether this has helped or hurt the environmental movement.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM320","[WI] Science Writing ","A workshop course in writing on scientific subjects. Includes analysis of the current market for science writing; examination of exemplary pieces of science writing; instruction in finding article ideas, interviewing, and working with editors; and production of feature-length articles. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM325","The Cultural Significance of Fame ","We will explore why fame is so important to us. Why do so many of us want it so badly? Why do we envy those who have it? What does the pursuit of fame say about us and about society? You will explore your own perception of fame, dissect your fame-related experiences, and analyze how the mass media keep us thinking and talking about fame.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM330","Professional Presentations ","A workshop course in the theory and practice of making effective professional presentations for the technical and business professional. Provides a systems approach to the planning, production, and presentation of visual/aural programs.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM335","Electronic Publishing ","Electronic Publishing gives students applied and theoretical knowledge of professional electronic publishing. Students will focus on issues relating to writing and integrating text and graphics to create websites and on-line publications. Students will also consider how issues in document design and usability can be used to evaluate websites.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM340","Desktop Publishing ","Covers production of publications using desktop publishing software, including planning, writing, designing, and budgeting of institutional magazines, newsletters, manuals, and brochures. Requires students to design several pieces (letterheads and flyers).","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM342","English Worldwide ","This course provides an overview of the spread of English globally, by examining English as a language of trade, diplomacy, and education, as well as its status as an aesthetic and market force. For a final project, students research how English is utilized for social, economic, and political purposes in a single area of the world.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM345","Intercultural Communication ","This course introduces students to the theory and practice of intercultural communication. Drawing from traditions in anthropology and communication, intercultural communication is the study of the effect of differing cultural norms and beliefs upon communication between speakers. Through a wide range of readings, journal writing assignments, and participative and experiential activities, students will develop both their understanding of and skills in inter-cultural communication. A final project and presentation draws together participative experiences and the readings and class discussions.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM350","[WI] Document Design and Evaluation ","Introduces the principles and practice of designing documents and measuring their effectiveness with audiences. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM351","Computer Mediated Communication ","We focus on practices and affordances of Computer Mediated Communication (CMC). We consider how computer technology is used in social interaction and its practical consequences. We focus on social practices and uses of technology. We use qualitative methods of analysis to understand the practices of CMC.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM352","Social Media and Communication ","Social Media provide a communication system for connecting, collaborating and building community. We will examine how these functions may be applied in personal, professional and political contexts. Activities will include readings, case studies and discussions. Students will create a strategic plan for using social media for personal, organizational or political purposes.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM355","Ethnography of Communication ","Examines theories and methods of qualitative language and communication studies. Topics include story telling, greetings, gossip, self-presentation in talk, language of ritual and religion, men and womens roles in communication, and communicative events and competence. Case student in literature will be analyzed and will form a basis for the students own ethnographic fieldwork.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM360","International Communication ","Examines the political, cultural, technological, and economic processes and effects of international communication flow.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM361","International Public Relations ","The course is designed give students a comprehensive overview of international issues in PR including such areas as: history and evolution of the field of international PR; image-formation and image-changes process; PR in war and conflict; as well as effect of different political and legal systems on the field of public relations.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM362","International Negotiations ","This course is designed to give students a comprehensive overview of the field including different theoretical points of view on the process of international negotiations; the role of perceptions in this process; the role of internal politics and cultural variables in the process of international negotiations.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM363","Event Planning ","This course will provide the student with the theoretical and practical fundamentals in understanding the complexities of producing Special Events across all major industries. Special Events addresses all elements of the communication process.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM365","Journalists, the Courts, and the Law ","Students explore and apply techniques for covering the court system, and explore case law and recent key legal developments that have reshaped how journalists do their jobs.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM375","[WI] Grant Writing ","Students explore the grant writing process, from the development of an idea and researching appropriate contributors, to writing a fully realized grant proposal, complete with budget. Course topics also include surveying the political and social climate before developing an idea, assessing an organizations capabilities to handle a project, and performing through literature reviews. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM376","Nonprofit Communication ","All nonprofit organizations must develop and maintain effective communication strategies in order to survive in a competitive economy. Nonprofits have unique needs and limitations in their longterm goals and short-term operations that relate to communication. This course introduces students to the ways nonprofits communicate with both their constituents and their benefactors and the ways researchers have examined these practices. Students will explore these two perspectives on nonprofit communication through a combination of scholarly readings, dialogues with local representatives in the nonprofit sector, and direct contact and work for a local nonprofit organization (as coordinated by the Drexel Center for the Support of Nonprofit Communication).","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM377","Communication for Civic Engagement ","Extremist rhetoric and divisive politics seem to go hand-in-hand in todays public deliberations. The media so often pair the word rhetoric itself with the pejorative adjectives mere, empty, and deceptive, that anything rhetorical becomes vilified. This course draws from the ancient accounts of rhetoric and the contemporary studies on rhetoric to rehabilitate it as a way to inform our efforts towards a more civil public discourse. This course also will host guest speakers from local civic and political organizations who engage in rhetorical practices in the service of civic engagement, which includes the discourse both of people who exercise political power and of citizens who debate over public policies and cultural identity.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM378","Public Service Campaigns ","Public communication campaigns are a familiar and essential part of American civic culture. Campaign topics range from personal issues, such as health, to social issues, such as equal opportunity, energy conservation, and environmental protection. Campaigns are regarded as public service programs if their goals are widely supported by the public and policymakers. If their goals are controversial, however, then they are regarded as advocacy strategies.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM380","Special Topics in Communication Theory ","Provides advanced communication studies covering various subjects in interpersonal, group, organizational, and mass communication. May be taken for credit twice.","1.0-","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM384","Free Speech & Censorship ","In this course, students will explore the various forms --some obvious, some not-- that censorship takes. Also explored will be what those who hold dissenting views endure as they try to contribute to the national dialogue. Historical and legal perspective on censorship will also be considered.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM385","Media Effects ","Some people believe that the mass media rule our lives, making us fat, violent, sexist, etc. Some think that media are irrelevant. Of course these arguments are extreme and simplifications. In this course, we ask: What are the facts regarding media effects research?.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM386","Public Relations Campaign Planning ","This capstone course will focus on the advanced aspects of public relations: how to analyze, plan, conduct, and implement successful public relations campaigns systematically and scientifically. Students will create full-scale PR campaigns, including budget, media materials, and social media tools, for their real-world clients, and implement key activities.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM390","[WI] Global Journalism ","Explores the issues facing journalists covering foreign affairs. Students will research and write news stories on issues of global import and will examine the work of foreign correspondents from historical and critical perspectives. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM391","Critiques of Journalism and News Media ","This course examines the role of journalism and news media in the social construction of our world. Focusing on key topics like framing and agenda setting in media research, we will critically consider how stories are routinely emphasized, excluded, organized, made sense of, and accumulate, plus more. We will discuss such topics in regard to various media (from newspapers to new media), various methods (qualitative and quantitative), and various public issues (including politics, music, sports, and representation of race/gender/sexuality/etc.).","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM400","Seminar in Communication ","This is an upper-level seminar in various topics in Communication, including but not limited to Rhetoric. Students will undertake an in-depth examination of critical texts or themes in Communication. The course is intended for upper-level majors in Communication and can be repeated for credit with a different topic.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM410","[WI] Advanced Technical Writing ","Continues COM 310. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM420","Technical and Science Editing ","Introduces the theory and practice of technical editing, including project and copy editing.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM491","Senior Project in Communication I ","Covers planning and execution of a professional project that integrates the academic and practical knowledge the student has acquired in his or her major.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("COM492","Senior Project in Communication II ","Requires completion and evaluation of the project begun in COM 491.","3.0 ","AS");
