INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL101","Composition and Rhetoric I: Inquiry and Exploratory Research ","Develops students abilities to use writing as a tool for inquiry. Introduces genre theory, writing as a process, revision, and strategies of primary and secondary research. Reviews grammar, style, and documentation conventions. Engages students in reflection and promotes positive attitudes toward writing.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL102","Composition and Rhetoric II: Advanced Research and Evidence-Based Writing ","Advances students development in the writing processes. Promotes a critical evaluation and integration of information into their own writing as they research complex and open-ended issues. Identifies the relationships between rhetorical situations, the status of claims, and the need for evidence and warrants. Continues review of grammar, style, and documentation conventions. Encourages collaboration and effective search strategies of the Internet and library resources. Promotes students reflective analysis and a positive attitude toward writing.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL103","Composition and Rhetoric III: Themes and Genres ","Advances students development in the writing and research processes and their understanding of how genres of writing shape meaning. Some courses may focus on the students academic and discipline-specific experiences; Others may be based on literary or social themes. Promotes a critical reading of texts, reflective analysis, and a positive attitude toward writing.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL105","Honors Freshman English ","Develops students abilities to read and write expository and persuasive academic discourse. Teaches students the components of the writing process and strategies to think and read critically and to present a written argument. Requires students to write expository and persuasive essays and research papers and to keep a journal to express their responses to the material read and studied in the course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL195","English Freshman Seminar ","This course introduces freshman majors to the practice and study of the English major. It is a foundation for further study as well as a course about how we learn. It prepares the student to be successful in upper-division courses and to become familiar with the basic tools of the discipline. It encourages the creative and critical thinking that is a hallmark of the English major.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL200","[WI] Classical to Medieval Literature ","A survey of Greek and Roman literature (Homer, Aeschylus, Euripides, Virgil and Cicero), up to and including the Medieval period (Aquinas, Cavalcanti, Chaucer, and Dante). This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL201","Renaissance to the Enlightenment ","A survey of Western literature from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment, focusing on works by Cervantes, Erasmus, Rabelais, Petrarch, Voltaire, Rousseau, Swift and Pope.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL202","[WI] Romanticism to Modernism ","A survey of Western literature of the 19th and 20th centuries focusing on the major periods of Romanticism (Blake, Coleridge and Keats), Realism (Balzac and Ibsen), and Modernism (Kafka, Borges and Woolf). This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL203","[WI] Post-Colonial Literature I ","A survey of nonwestern literatures produced before the modern era in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, representing the more important periods and genres. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL204","Post-Colonial Literature II ","A survey of nonwestern literatures written in the 20th century by writers from Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, and focusing on the effects of social, aesthetic and contemporary events on artistic creation.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL205","[WI] American Literature I ","A survey of American literature from Colonial times through the Civil War, including works by such writers as Anne Bradstreet, Emily Dickinson, Frederick Douglass, Cotton Mather, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Herman Melville, Henry David Thoreau and Walt Whitman. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL206","[WI] American Literature II ","A survey of American literature from the Civil War through the 21st century, including works by such writers as Kate Chopin, W.E.B. Du Bois, T.S. Eliot, William Faulkner, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Henry James, Philip Roth, Mark Twain and John Updike. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL207","[WI] African American Literature ","Introduces students to African-American Literature, from the mid-18th century to the present. Provides a basic understanding of social, political and cultural influences and an awareness of the African-American literary tradition. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL211","[WI] British Literature I ","A historical survey of British literature from its beginning to the end of the eighteenth century. Students will read texts selected to represent major authors, forms and thematic material that illustrates the development of English literature through the medieval and Renaissance periods and seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL212","British Literature II ","A historical survey of British literature from the turn of the nineteenth century to the present; students will read texts selected to represent major authors, forms and thematic material of the Romantic, Victorian and modern periods.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL214","Readings in Fiction ","A basic course, which focuses on fiction as a genre through the study of a variety of short stories and fiction, organized by theme, period or form. One of three genre courses.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL215","[WI] Readings in Poetry ","A basic course which focuses on poetry as a genre through the study of a variety of poems organized by theme, period or form. One of three genre courses. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL216","[WI] Readings in Drama ","A basic course which focuses on drama as a genre through the study of a variety of plays organized by theme, period or form. One of three genre courses. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL300","[WI] Literature & Science ","This course studies the impact of scientific and technological change on works of literature and art produced in various historical periods. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL302","Environmental Literature ","This course explores the relatively recent discipline of Ecocriticism and considers the literary relationship between human beings and the natural environment--both altered and unaltered by human activity. The approach is interdisciplinary in its investigation of the relationships among science, culture, and personal observation. Students will read a selection of seminal texts of American environmental literature.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL303","Science Fiction ","Provides reading and discussion of works illustrating the development of modern science fiction.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL304","Young Adult Fiction ","This course introduces students to young adult (YA) fiction and to secondary sources useful for the appreciation of it. Topics discussed include: young adults as an audience, the genres of YA fiction, keeping up with YA fiction, literary and psychological theory applied to YA fiction.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL305","[WI] The Mystery Story ","A study of the mystery story, from its inception as a genre in the 19th century to the present, through short stories and novels. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL306","Literature of Baseball ","An examination of novels, short stories, and poetry about our national pastime that illuminate American ideals and values, history and culture from 1845 to the present. A study of how the games symbols and rituals, its history and mythology help us understand American belief systems and ideologies.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL307","Literature of the Holocausts ","To underline the fact that more than one Holocaust has occurred, the course offers different points of view about the systematic slaughter of several religious and ethnic groups, pre-and post-World War II, through fiction, childrens literature and films.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL308","[WI] The Literature of Business ","In this advanced reading course, students read literary works about business and work and write analytically about these works, grounding that analysis in nonfiction readings from business publications. Course writing assignments ask students to respond to problems and issues raised in the texts. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL310","[WI] Period Studies ","This is a variable topics course, focusing on the literature of a particular period (i.e., Classical Literature; Victorian Literature; the Harlem Renaissance). May be repeated for credit. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL312","Research Project Development ","A seminar-style course in which students work on a research or creative project of their own choosing. They acquire knowledge and skills related to the development of researchable original ideas in the domains of humanities areas like literature and philosophy, or social science areas like communication, history or psychology, or a creative work or portfolio.","1.0-","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL315","[WI] Shakespeare ","This course focuses on Shakespeares major plays and sonnets, providing the historical and cultural contexts that gave rise to his work. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL320","[WI] Major Authors ","A course focused on intensive study of one or more authors, for example: Jane Austen; Joseph Conrad; Hemingway, Faulkner and Fitzgerald; Writers of the Harlem Renaissance; Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. May be repeated for credit. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL323","Literature and Other Arts ","A variable topics course which studies relationships between literature and one or more of the visual arts, theater or music (i.e., Surrealism; Memoir and Documentary Film; The Faust Legend). May be repeated for credit.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL325","Topics in World Literature ","A variable topics course which focuses on a particular national or regional literature within its cultural, historical and political contexts (i.e., African Literature; French Literature; Latin American Literature). May be repeated for credit.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL330","The Bible as Literature ","This course provides a close reading of selected books of the Old and New Testaments alongside selected literary works to discover both the literary qualities of these texts and their influence on literature.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL335","Mythology ","This course investigates the specific forms mythological stories have taken in the literature, art and ritual of some or all of the following: Greece, Rome, Iceland, Mesopotamia and Native American and European cultures in the United States.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL340","[WI] Classical Rhetoric ","A study in the theory and practical application of Greek and Roman rhetorical strategies in composition. Focuses on influential figures, terminology, the five canons, and the ancient composition processes known as progymnasmata to look at historical texts, the rhetoric of popular media, and the students writing. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL345","American Ethnic Literature ","A variable topics course which studies the literature of one or more of the United States ethnic populations within their historical and cultural contexts. May be repeated for credit.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL350","Jewish Literature and Civilization ","Focuses on the Jewish Bible, a classic literary document of Western civilization, deemed by many people of the world as fundamental to their religion; stresses aspects of cultural diversity and awareness.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL355","[WI] Women and Literature ","This course focuses on literature written by, and/or about women and considers issues relating to womens place in literary history. May be repeated for credit. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL360","[WI] Literature and Society ","This course examines the relationship between literature and the society it reflects and helps shape. May be repeated for credit. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL365","Topics in African American Literature ","A variable topics course designed to further develop the ideas first presented in the African American Literature survey by exploring, in much more depth, significant authors, periods, and genres within the African American literary and cultural tradition. Topics include Science and Technology in African American Literature; the Slave Narrative; and Black Travel Writing.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL370","Topics in Literature and Medicine ","This is a variable topics course which focuses on aspects of illness, healing, care-giving, aging, grief, and mortality as presented in narrative. Exploration of how literary construction and analysis affect understanding of these experiences. Topics include ?Illness and Healing in Literature and The Physician in Literature and Film. May be repeated three times for credit.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL380","Literary Theory ","This course examines literary theoretical thinking, and focuses on twentieth century structuralism, post-structuralism, and contemporary theory. We will examine the ways in which language is conceived and reconceived by major theoretical writers and the implications of this rethinking for conceptualizations of history, politics, ideology, sexuality, and trauma, among others.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL395","[WI] Special Studies in Literature ","This is a variable topics course, providing intense literary study on a specific theme. May be repeated for credit. This is a writing intensive course.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL470","Capstone Seminar in Medical Humanities ","This seminar gives students the opportunity to synthesize, contextualize, and deepen their understanding of how disciplines in the humanities and the social sciences approach the experiences and implications of illness, aging, mortality and healing. Regular guest lecturers, discussion of assigned readings, student presentations, and written projects.","3.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL490","Seminar in English and American Literature ","An advanced course with variable topics in British or American Literature stressing textual analysis, cultural and historical contexts and research; provides students with intensive preparation for advanced and professional studies.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL492","Seminar in World Literature ","An advanced course with variable topics in World Literature stressing textual analysis, cultural and historical contexts and research; provides students with intensive preparations for advanced and professional studies.","4.0 ","AS");

INSERT INTO course(class, title, description, credit, college) VALUES("ENGL499","Senior Project in Literature ","Open to English Majors only, the senior project in literature should reflect the students interest in a specific subject, author or theme and should demonstrate the students research, critical and analytical expertise at an advanced, pre-professional level.","4.0 ","AS");
